# Faceless

Corso: Creative Programming and Computing.

Autori: Riccardo Pomarico, Alice Marazzi, Alfredo Brusca.

Faceless helps a computer understand humans through the words that describe them, and in doing so, you will experience personal identity itself.
While the program desperately tries to recreate the face, the user will realize that words are not enough to fully represent who they are.

Install Processing 4.3 and SuperCollider 3.13.0-RC3.
Launch SuperCollider and run backgroundMusic.scd file, and then launch Processing and Faceless.pde.
Lastly follow the program prompts and enjoy the experience!

The video part is rendered by Processing while the background music is generated by SuperCollider and modified by OSC messages which Processing sends to SuperCollider.

On a macro-level, the program starts with an intro, followed by some prompts which captured the words to be used in a wordList. This wordList is used for the world creation which loops itself after the prompts phase. Lastly, after a number of generation passes we have an outro.

As far as the algorithm itself is concerned, after the world is created we generate a large number of blocks which represent singular words and their position in space.
For each one of this blocks, we evaluate the fitness function representing how well they overlap with the original image. The best among these blocks are displayed and a new fitness function is evaluated by printing the blocks on top of the image we just created. This is to ensure that these blocks help the overall image instead of just being in a good spot by themselves. This second fitness function is used to create the mating pool which will generate the new world and loop back.

Genes of the word:
- Position
- Rotation
- Dimension
- Color

Fitness function: pixel-by-pixel difference with respect to the original image.

Mating pool: blocks which, if added to the image, would improve the fitness function the best.

The SuperCollider music is meant to be a simple and everchanging melody with a Sci-Fi quality to it. It uses a spacey synth with patterns taken from the Lydian scale.
The OSC messages increase the tempo and decreased the filter cutoff as the generation passes.
